Sunpy ideas (#270)
OpenAstronomy/openastronomy.github.io: _projects/2021/sunpy/scraper.md

---
name: Scraper rewrite
desc: Improve the current scraper to download data
# add a short one line description of your project
requirements:
# Student requirements:

>  - Knowledge on python and text parsing
>  - Familiar with web protocols

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Familiarity with Python 
 - Knowledge of Python regex 
 - Familiar with web protocols
```
I want to clarify what the last one means. In theory they don't need to know?

difficulty: medium
issues:
# Related issues (if any)  to this project.
 - https://github.com/sunpy/sunpy/issues/4888
mentors:
# First person in contact; mentors may change before project starts.
# GitHub handles
 - nabobalis

>  - dpshelio

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - cadair
 - samaloney
 - hayesla
 - dpshelio
```

Author: I've been moved four points down :(

initiatives:
 - GSOC
tags:
# Different technologies needed
 - python
 - web
collaborating_projects:
# suborganisation(s) to which this project belongs.
 - sunpy

>  - astroquery

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Would they want one?

---

> This project will provide access to data in an programmatic way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This project will provide the ability to parse URL information in a programmatic way.
```

#### Description

> The current scraper implementation has been very useful to provide access to
> many data archives, however, it has some limitations and the work around are
> making the code very unsustainable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sunpy provides a way for users to access data using Fido and its many internal clients.
Many of these simpler clients do URL scraping to return metadata and data files to a user. 

This scraping is done by the `scraper class <https://docs.sunpy.org/en/stable/api/sunpy.util.scraper.Scraper.html?highlight=scraper>`__.
Over the years, the scale of what this class has to do has expanded to a point where it is unmaintainable.

The goal of this project is to rewrite this class to have a defined structure. 
Please be aware that this project is not a design project, the API and the scope of scrapper has been (link to come) predetermined and laid out by the mentors.
So the focus will be to write the class and its methods to follow this specification (obviously leaving the implementation up to you).  
```

#### Milestones (if any)

> - Fully scope out what we need scraper to achieve
> - Figure out how to use parse (probably with patches upstream)
> - Implement it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Partial scraper written
2. Functional scraper written
3. Finished scraper implementation.
```

##### Coding starts

* Be awesome

> ##### 1st evaluation

Reviewer: Is it 1 and the final now?

> * Have done awesome stuff.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Partial skeleton of scraper written.
```

##### Final

> * Finished the awesome stuff.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Functional replacement scraper. 
```

---
name: Scraper rewrite
desc: Improve the current scraper to download data
# add a short one line description of your project
requirements:
# Student requirements:
 - Familiarity with Python 
 - Knowledge of Python regex 
 - Familiar with web protocols
difficulty: medium
issues:
# Related issues (if any)  to this project.
 - https://github.com/sunpy/sunpy/issues/4888
mentors:
# First person in contact; mentors may change before project starts.
# GitHub handles
 - nabobalis
 - cadair
 - samaloney

>  - hayesla

Reviewer: This is ok @samaloney and @hayesla?

Reviewer 2: yeah sounds good!

Reviewer 3: yup

 - dpshelio
initiatives:
 - GSOC
tags:
# Different technologies needed
 - python
 - web
collaborating_projects:
# suborganisation(s) to which this project belongs.
 - sunpy
---

This project will provide the ability to parse URL information in a programmatic way.

#### Description

sunpy provides a way for users to access data using Fido and its many internal clients.
Many of these simpler clients do URL scraping to return metadata and data files to a user. 

This scraping is done by the `scraper class <https://docs.sunpy.org/en/stable/api/sunpy.util.scraper.Scraper.html?highlight=scraper>`__.

> Over the years, the scale of what this class has to do has expanded to a point where it is unmaintainable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Over the years, the scale of what this class has to do has expanded to a point where it has become unmaintainable.
```

> The goal of this project is to rewrite this class to have a defined structure. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal of this project is to create a new scraper with a predefined API and structure. 
```

> Please be aware that this project is not a design project, the API and the scope of scrapper has been (link to come) predetermined and laid out by the mentors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please be aware that this project is not a design project, the API and the scope of scrapper has been (link to come) predetermined and laid out by the GSoC mentors.
```

> So the focus will be to write the class and its methods to follow this specification (obviously leaving the implementation up to you).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So the primary focus of this project will be to write the class and its methods to follow this specification (obviously leaving the implementation details mainly up to you).  
```

#### Milestones (if any)

> 1. Partial scraper written
> 2. Functional scraper written
> 3. Finished scraper implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Partial scraper written
2. Figured out if we can use parse instead of python regrex.
3. Functional scraper written
4. Finished scraper implementation.
```

3. Finished scraper implementation.

##### Coding starts

> * Be awesome

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Already have a development environment setup
* Understand the project and the API design. Having asked questions if you do not. 
```

##### 1st evaluation

* Partial skeleton of scraper written.

##### Final

> * Functional replacement scraper. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Functional replacement ready for review and merging into sunpy. 
```

---
name: Scraper rewrite
desc: Improve the current scraper to download data
# add a short one line description of your project
requirements:
# Student requirements:
 - Familiarity with Python 
 - Knowledge of Python regex 
 - Familiar with web protocols
difficulty: medium
issues:
# Related issues (if any)  to this project.
 - https://github.com/sunpy/sunpy/issues/4888
mentors:
# First person in contact; mentors may change before project starts.
# GitHub handles
 - nabobalis

>  - cadair

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

 - samaloney
 - hayesla
 - dpshelio
initiatives:
 - GSOC
tags:
# Different technologies needed
 - python
 - web
collaborating_projects:
# suborganisation(s) to which this project belongs.
 - sunpy
---

This project will provide the ability to parse URL information in a programmatic way.

#### Description

sunpy provides a way for users to access data using Fido and its many internal clients.
Many of these simpler clients do URL scraping to return metadata and data files to a user. 

This scraping is done by the `scraper class <https://docs.sunpy.org/en/stable/api/sunpy.util.scraper.Scraper.html?highlight=scraper>`__.
Over the years, the scale of what this class has to do has expanded to a point where it has become unmaintainable.

The goal of this project is to create a new scraper with a predefined API and class structure. 
Please be aware that this project is not a design project, the API and the scope of scrapper has been (link to come) predetermined and laid out by the GSoC mentors.

> So the primary focus of this project will be to write the class and its methods to follow this specification (obviously leaving the implementation details mainly up to you).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So the primary focus of this project will be to write the class and its methods to follow this specification (obviously leaving the implementation details mainly up to you).
```

#### Milestones (if any)

1. Partial scraper written
2. Figured out if we can use parse instead of python regex.
3. Functional scraper written
4. Finished scraper implementation.

##### Coding starts

* Already have a development environment setup
* Understand the project and the API design. Having asked questions if you do not. 

##### 1st evaluation

* Partial skeleton of scraper written.

##### Final

> * Functional replacement ready for review and merging into sunpy. 

Reviewer 3: So is our plan to maintain the current external API so all the current clients will work as is or do we allow breaking change since we want to also move it to sunpy.net?

Reviewer: I'm ok with the API being broken and updating our clients but it is something worth discussing when we scope out scraper.
